All right, so theoretically,
again, talking and typing,
we don't know what happened, but
I feel good, I'm feeling pretty good.
At this point, I think,
since I started from Mannequin,
I've got to at least script.
We'll say type module,
sweet, and then we'll say
src is .srcindex.js.
And then in there real quick,
let's just do a console log.
So we'll import john.biographies/john.
What am I doing?
I'm doing Paul.
He's my favorite Beatle.
Don't ask me.
Cool, and
then we'll do the console log here.
Cool, so let's pull in.
So now, could we just pull in
a markdown file in an ECMAScript app?
Like I said, barring mistakes of me
typing and talking at the same time.
Let's find out together.
npm run dev.
That's looking great.
Yeah, that's not in there.
What I started back from me and
I kept that file on there.
So we have no images.
We're not doing that.
Sweet, new problem is that I
didn't delete it from up here.
All right, but it should be a string.
That's still good.
Let's see what we got.
It's blowing up at the parse piece.
So whenever I said out loud,
we've got content
Cuz that's a promise
Now you can see that it
actually converted to HTML,
right, on the fly as part
of my build process, right?
And this library turns into HTML,
I guess that remark will turn
into a JavaScript object,
you can theoretically as long as you
turn like ESTree is the AST while
it's a lot of letters in a row.
ESTree is a abstract syntax tree that has,
as long as you return to that
Vite we'll figure out the rest.
But this will return to a string if
I wanted to pull apart that HTML and
just get the name and turn it into
a JavaScript object that I wanted to use,
that's totally doable as well, right?
It is basically just evaling effectively
whatever string I put out here.
And again, there are other hooks.
There are ways to,
the regular transform will allow you
to also put a source map in there as well.
But you can take any
file that you want and
basically do anything with it
because every single import require.
Whether or not Vite actually supports it,
right, you will get a chance to step in
and turn it into something that Vite
does support cuz at the end of the day,
I took a markdown file and
I turned it into, yeah,
the world's worst piece of JavaScript.
But if we go ahead and
we look in the sources,
right, we can see source
will see biographies, right?
It turned into effectively JavaScript,
right?
Yeah, kind of ridiculous JavaScript but
JavaScript nonetheless, and
like I said for the most part,
when you need it is either for
we spin up our open source server.
That's not the way that
a lot of other apps work,
you usually have to talk
to some remote server.
I happen to have an open-source
server that I talk to.
So we spin it up at the same time.
If you need to parse some unique
file type for your company or
you just wanna manipulate, you wanna
take a given a given JavaScript type,
or do something with the JSX,
you can do that, right?
If you wanna strip out all
your data attributes, right?
Your test data, only on build.
So you can say, if we go,
I'm gonna turn this to TypeScript
real quick for
a reason you'll see in a second.
TypeScript and we'll say file as a string.
What I wanna do is it's
gonna return a plugin.
That'll just give me a little bit
more type help in a second here.
You can say, There's
a whole bunch, I'm trying to look.
So we can say apply build,
for instance, right?
This is kinda more of an example,
apply build.
So this will be only on build, right,
which means you're building for
production.
You could theoretically
grab every single file and
be like, all those data-test.ids that
we have in there for Playwright or
Cypress or whatever, I don't wanna
ship those to production, right?
Strip them all out.
Just literally use a regex, right, and
strip out all of the data attributes,
right?
Or I guarantee you there is
a plug-in that exists for this,
go find every console log and
get rid of it.
So I don't ship those to production cuz,
who has shipped a what
console log into production?
I have,
[LAUGH] thank God it wasn't a curse word.
But if you haven't done it,
you will, eventually, and
if the plugin doesn't exist,
maybe you'll use console log.
Maybe there's an abstraction over it that
you only want in certain conditions.
You can theoretically strip that out, or
you can choose to add stuff
as part of the build process.
There will be unique things for you.
Most of the common one is don't
write your own plugin, right?
Go use a plugin that's at
least been vetted by yeah,
not the best use of your time.
But there are probably at some point or
another you could, if you think about it
ES Build has its own JSX parser where
you can write your own function, right?
You could theoretically if one got
bored during a holiday break or
whatever write your own
front-end framework right?
Using probably just Vite, some plugins,
and some transformations,
right, effectively,
that's what Svelte's doing with Rollup, right?
You could theoretically do
something along those lines.
Should you?
Maybe not, right?
But if you had,
I have a workshop from a few years ago,
to build your own programming language,
right?
It would be fun.
At one point,
I could take that programming language and
convert it back into JavaScript and
then pull in Dropbear,
which is the main programming language,
apparently in Australia.
There's a myth that
bears hide in trees and
try to belly-flop on you as
you're walking through the woods.
I could make Vite support for
my own custom programming language.
Should I?
Absolutely, [LAUGH] but you could
do these various different things
with a Vite plugin and I think that's
what again, it starts out with hey,
all you need is an index.html file and
you're good to go.
And maybe you throw a script tag in there,
you want some JavaScript to, all right,
cool you wanna host modules somewhere
else and pull them in remotely or
build a library or
parse your own programming language?
Right on, it's just like
a function added in there, right?
And that's kind of line from
incredibly simple all the way to
incredibly powerful but
still not that complicated, right?
This looks a little squirrely in the very
beginning but once you begin to wrap your
head around it, especially if you cheat
wouldn't have the types in there.
I learn as I write JavaScript for
you all day, how reliant I am on,
being able to option
click into the types and
read all the things that thing has
without even having to open the docs.
Because if you look too,
it's like, I love it, right?
For various different pieces,
you can kinda get a sense,
Of what everything does and
what it takes what to expect.
But yeah, so there's a wide
range of really powerful parts.